Hi everybody and welcome back.
Now the next few lectures we're going to talk about testing your code.
So whenever you write a function or class in Spuyten You could also write tests to make sure that they
work as expected.
The advantage of writing tests is that when it comes time for users to start using your programs you
can be certain that they work as expected.
You will also be able to test new code as is out to ensure it does not affect your programs in an unexpected
way.
Let's start off by testing a function to start testing we need some code that's right now a simple function
that takes in the first and last name and returns them cleanly format.
So TGF get formatted name.
What are the parameters first last there we go.
Don't forget our colon generate a formatted name.
OK.
So that's create a very full name.
Equals first Plus space.
But it's not a plus it's an underscore Plus space plus last name.
And we go return
full name title.
OK.
Now to check that our function here works as we expected.
Let's create a program that use it.
So here I am now in my program that's going to test our functions.
So let's get started.
Let's write a program now to test our function.
So from
test function one import gets formatted name.
Let's just double check you get formatted names so we're importing that function print
into Q to quit this program.
There we go.
Now we're putting in a flag.
So while true
our first name equals input
backslash and New Line Please enter your first name.
There we go.
Next if first is q then we're going to break.
Don't forget your colon break.
There we go.
Last equals our last name equals the input.
Again we'll be looking for input from the user and we putting this on a nice clean new line backslash.
And please enter your last name.
There we go again.
If the last Q column break.
Now we want to call it function.
So format name
name ECOs get formatted name what premolars passing where we're passing our first or last input from
the user.
Print
your name is because you didn't know your name.
Plus formatted name
plus full stop.
Not to give out a cleanly formatted name.
Funny.
OK so let's jump on over to idle and run this program.
OK so here we are.
Let's run this program.
Here's our program running.
Tony Stonehill your name is Tony Stanton.
Q Okay so everything is running as we expect.
But what have you wanted to modify our program to include a middle name.
We want to make sure that our new code does not break our function.
We can test it manually like we just did but that will get very tedious having to test it every time
we made a change to help us out and provides a way of automating the testing for functions output.
Let's take a look.
The model unit tests from the plight and standard library provides tools for testing your code a unit
test verifies that one specific aspect of a function's behavior is working.
A test case is a collection of unit tests that they get to prove that a function behaves as it's supposed
to to write a test case for a function.
We import to unit test module and the function we want to test.
We then create a class that inherits from UNIT TEST TEST CASE and write a series of methods to test
different aspects of our functions.
Let's look at a test case with one method that verifies that the function get name works correctly and
provide you with a forced laugh and say OK everybody so here we are back and so polite.
And as I just said let's start with import units test.
Here we go now from test function underscore one which is were which was our first file you can see
the name appear import get formatted name which was the function we Roche.
Next we have a class names test case.
I'm going to explain all this now.
Just a few minutes.
So units got sorry units test that test case.
CONAN And what's the description for this tests.
For the test function one
y.
There we go.
Next we define what we define a function.
And what are we doing where we're testing our first and our last name
one parameter self
test first and last names we go.
So for about a name
equals get formatted name what information do we pass up when we pass.
Tony stomata
should be lower case.
Now next self assert equal
format a name.
What's the output we expect.
Well we expect it to look like this.
Tony Stanton And finally what should have moved the bracket there now.
And finally unit test that main.
OK let's run this now and see what we get.
OK successful test.
If you look at the output here the first dot means we've run one test then we have a line break.
You can say round one test in zero seconds and finished.
Ok perfect so a function works performs the way we expect it to.
Now let's just look back over this program and go through some of the bits that might be new to us at
line 5.
We import you to test followed by the functions we want to test.
So these are the functions here we want to test next.
We create a class called names test case here.
This class will contain a series of tests for format a name you can name the class anything you want
but try and call it something related to the function you are about to test and use the word test in
the class name.
The class must inherit from the class unit test that test case.
So pite knows how to run our tests names.
Test case contains a single method here which tests one aspect of format a name.
This method is called a test for his last name and the method starting with test will be run automatically
when we run unit tests that p y.
So when we run this file into a test method we call the function we want to test and store a return
value.
We're interested in testing here at 9:15.
We use a separate method this method verifies that the result we receive matches the results we expected.
Which in this case it does we know to get format a name is supposed return a capitalized properly based
name.
We expect the value in formatted name to be Tony started to test this.
We use unit test assert equal method and pansit format the name of Tony start in the line unit test.
Main towns to run test in this file.
So that's a brief introduction to tests.
I could write a whole lecture series on tests but this is just an introduction to whet your appetite
and let you know that tests are available automated to help you with your work.
Thanks for listening and I'll see you in the next lecture.